So we'll start to get a bit
more technical now and
apply things to actually go and
improve accessibility that we see.
Our code base will use React,
but the stuff applies no matter what
type of a frontend stack you're using.
So you could be working with
the hottest new JavaScript framework.
I really enjoyed Svelte recently.
Speaking of data visualizations with D3,
you could be generating things that way.
Or you could use Astro or
use GraphQL APIs or
whatever the framework of
the week happens to be.
If it's just generating a frontend
that users are interacting with,
accessibility is a concern.
So maybe something you could do,
especially if you're newer to a framework,
but maybe you're more familiar with HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript.
An approach you could take would be
to do some prototyping upfront before
translating it into a framework.
That's something I do a lot
when I just need to tell
kind of quickly in a lightweight manner,
is this going to work?
Before I go and do all of the work
of integrating it into my stack,
I might do a lighter weight version of it.
Maybe I do use React.
I like React.
But just saying that if you have
constraints that it would benefit you,
you can consider doing some
prototyping to just feel more free
while you're testing out an idea or
an experiment.
And whether your output is in HTML,
CSS, and JavaScript,
or a more robust framework,
the basics always apply.
So it really is about what gets rendered.
Is it well-structured using as many
default HTML elements as possible,
cuz there's a lot.
So what do I mean by well-structured?
So HTML provides structural semantics.
They are really helpful in screen readers.
We saw earlier there were landmark
elements and buttons and forms.
All those elements that are not divs have
meaning [LAUGH] as we'll learn about.
We did learn about accessibility tree,
and so
you might start to be able to
connect how tags become objects.
It's a very robust process that
if we use semantic HTML elements,
we can help that out by actually
creating an accessible structure.
So it's non-visual, and it really goes
beyond the way that something looks.
And there are so many defaults these days.
Fortunately, form elements are getting
easier to style here in 2023.
We have some easier to
style form elements.
Never thought I'd see it, I'm very
happy to see it though, it's awesome.
I think form elements being hard to style
are how the legacy of inaccessible stuff
came about, was because we were trying
to meet client needs, customer needs.
We couldn't style it and
still use the default HTML element.
Well, it's really hard to replace some
of that functionality, because we get
a lot for free with things like links and
selects, trying to create a custom select.
There's features in that component
that you might not even realize.
So you have to recreate those
if you make your own version.
It can be done, just to say,
it can be done accessibly as well, but
you don't have to.
If you can advocate for
using the default HTML element,
pose it as, hey,
we're gonna save time and money.
[SOUND] [LAUGH] l You might be able to
convince your teammates off of the heavily
styled customization ledge and
just use the default thing, potentially.
So I would recommend checking
out Mozilla Developer Network,
their list of HTML elements.
I learn something new
every time I look at that.
I'll even go and refresh my memory of, how
does that element or that attribute work?
I've been doing a lot of stuff
with forms recently, and so
I definitely went and
looked at the reference to go and
make sure that I was aware of everything
available to me with the defaults.
So when it comes to HTML, we wanna
use semantic HTML whenever we can.
We also use generic HTML, like divs and
spans, as wrapper elements.
They're great for styling.
I do a lot of layout with CSS Grid and
Flexbox, and so I'm definitely adding
generic elements to give the right
structure to match my layouts and things.
But those sort of get ignored,
like those divs are not going to
be put in the accessibility tree.
Only semantic HTML elements will,
so we need a combo of both.
So I have kind of a funny graphic
here From South Park that says,
a Marklar walks into a Marklar.
Marklar asks the Marklar,
do you have any Marklar?
The Marklar shakes its Marklar and
says, no, we only have Marklar.
That would basically be an analog
to Div Soup all the way down,
just like divs, solid.
So that's what we wanna avoid.
Here's a screenshot of Div Soup.
It's a long tree structure of div,
div div, div, div.
There's no accessibility information here.
I see a div rule button buried in there.
That's ARIA disabled, but it's a div.
It's not focusable from what I can tell,
so it might as well just be a div cuz it
doesn't have all the other
things that it would need.
I think that might,
I see a real progress bar.
[LAUGH] Otherwise,
I think that might be the most divs
I've seen in one place in a long time.
So I think we can do more than that.
I mean, any webpage is probably gonna
have a need for more semantic HTML.
So we should use what we can.
So starting with headings,
we can use h1 through h6 headings
to create an overall page outline.
We wanna try and choose the right
heading level for the content,
not based on the way it looks.
So that's kind of pitfall
number one of what I see a lot,
is you'll get class names or
heading styles that are,
they're called h1 through h4,
whatever, you have a style guide.
And the design, it just leads you down
this path of choosing the heading
level based on the way it looks,
cuz that's in the design, right?
Well, we need to pick the heading
level based on what the content is.
So if there's an overall page
structure that we can slot this into,
like h2 comes after h1, h3 comes after h2,
and it creates that structure, right?
I think of it like in Microsoft Word,
how there's an outline that you can make
with Roman numerals and Google Docs,
how everything's indented and it all
falls under everything hierarchically.
That's what headings will do.
They will create that structure so
that if you can't see the screen,
you can still digest it and
get an idea of the hierarchy of content.
There was, at one time, an HTML5
heading algorithm that sort of has been
haunting us because it was never really
implemented for assistive technology.
The idea there was that you could
start h1s over again in excerpts.
So they were more portable.
But it never really worked.
So we wanna scratch that
[LAUGH] unfortunately and
have an overall page outline.
So 1h1, we try and go in order just so
that the content does kind of,
you can tell from looking at just
the heading structure, what's on it.
So landmark elements, question.
>> So it might be related, and
feel free to point it if it's not, but
I guess on a similar note,
when you're using React components or
any kind of UI library, how do you
figure out what a heading should be
when you're trying to make
a reusable component?
Because it feels like my, well, if I place
the setting here, it's in h2 for now.
But then if I place it in this other part
of the UI that gets graded months from
now, and I didn't anticipate any of this,
what heading level should it be?
It feels like maybe the option is
polymorphic components where you just set
it when you're using it, but
I don't know if you have any other tips.
>> Yes, so great question.
I'm glad you mentioned it.
So when you have to plug a component in
and you can't guarantee where it goes,
I think the option I've used for that is
to make the heading level configurable.
So being something you pass in.
It would be nice if that was automatic.
So I don't know of any tools
that are automatic like that.
I mean, maybe Facebook has something like
that, cuz they're huge and super advanced.
But if you can pass in
a heading level to a component,
you can have React kind of combine
the tag name that you pass in and
you can generate elements based on
tag names dynamically that way.
So that's one technique.
There is an ARIA role of
heading with ARIA level.
It's not great because then
you're putting ARIA on something
rather than using the default,
which is the h1 through h6 tag.
And you'd still have to figure
out what level it had to be.
The only thing it would save you is not
having to generate an element kind of
dynamically.
But I think if you're gonna do one,
I mean,
you might as well use
the default HTML element first.
But yeah, I'd say probably
passing in the heading level.
It's not that elegant.
I guess if you had some way to
magically just read the overall page,
it would have to be done at
compile time or something,
and that seems maybe too magical.
It might be not the most elegant to pass
in tag names when you're using them, but
it's also not too magical.
So it's easy to grok.
And I think that code that's
easy to understand has benefits.
Okay.